---
layout: default
title: CV
---

h1. Óscar Andrés Nájera Ocampo

h5. "PDF file":https://dl.dropbox.com/u/29005867/najera-cv.pdf

<section>
h3. Research Interest

Condensed Matter, Solid State Physics, Strongly Correlated Electron systems,
Statistical Mechanics, Mathematical & Theoretical Physics, Scientific
Programming & computational systems analysis
</section>

<section>
h3. Education

<div class="organization">
h4(name). *Université Paris Sud*, Orsay - France

* PhD in Strongly Correlated Electron Systems %(date)Sept. 2014 - Present%
    Theory Group at Laboratoire de Physique des Solides

</div>

<div class="organization">
h4(name). *École Normale Supérieure de Cachan*, Cachan - France

* M2 Master in Molecular Nano- bio-photonics (MONABIPHOT) %(date)Sept. 2013 -
  Sept. 2014%
** _Thesis Topic:_ Study of spin-orbit
effects in the Mott-Hubbard metal-insulator transition
** _Advisor:_ Dr. Marcello Civelli and Dr. Marcello Rozenberg

</div>

<div class="organization">
h4(name). *Escuela Politécnica Nacional*, Quito - Ecuador

* Physics Diploma %(date)Oct. 2006 - Sept. 2012%
** _Thesis Topic:_ Estimation, by computer simulation, of the exchange energy dispersion between polar nano-regions in $Pb_xBi_4Ti_{3+x}O_{12+3x}; x=\{2,3\}$ relaxor ferroelectrics
** _Advisor:_ Dr. Luis Lascano

</div>

<div class="organization">
h4(name). *German School*, Quito - Ecuador

* German Abitur %(date)May 2006%
* Eduadorian High School Diploma %(date)June 2005%

</div>

</section>

<section>
h3. Honors and Awards

* PhD fellowship, École Doctorale Physique en Île de France, France %(date)2014%
* Paris-Saclay Master Scholarship, *Campus Paris-Saclay*, France %(date)2013%
* Danced for Ecuador in WDSF World DanceSport Championship Standard, Australia %(date)2012%
* Physics Olympiad 1 ^st^ place, *Escuela Politécnica Nacional*, Ecuador %(date)2010%
* Bronze Medal for Academic performance, *German School Quito*, Ecuador %(date)2005%
* PAD Preisträger, *Kultusminister Konferenz*, Germany %(date)2003%

</section>

<section>
h3. Academic Experience

<div class="organization">
h4(name). *Université Paris Sud*, Orsay - France
* M2 Internship at Laboratoire de Physique des Solides.
Study of spin-orbit
effects in the Mott-Hubbard metal-insulator transition %(date)Feb. 17, 2014 -
July 11, 2014%

</div>

<div class="organization">
h4(name). *Swiss Federal Institute of Technology(ETH)*, Zurich - Switzerland

* Visitor at Institute for Building Material (IfB). Training in Lattice Boltzmann Methods for fluid dynamics %(date)Apr. 5 - May 15, 2013%

</div>

<div class="organization">
h4(name). *International Center for Theoretical Physics*, Trieste - Italy
* _Teaching Assistant_  ``Workshop on Advanced Techniques for Scientific Programming and
Management of Open Source Software packages'' SMR 2574 %(date)Mar. 10 - 21, 2014%
* _Invited Student_ ``Workshop on Computer Programming and Advanced Tools for Scientific
    Research Work'' SMR 2503 %(date)Mar. 11 - 22, 2013%
* _Invited Student_ ``Advanced School on Scientific Software Development'' SMR 2330 %(date)Feb. 20 - Mar. 2, 2012%
</div>

<div class="organization">
h4(name). *Universidad Central del Ecuador*, Quito - Ecuador

* Trainee in the Molecular Symmetries and Quantum Chemistry Group %(date)Sept. 2012 - Mar. 2013%

</div>

<div class="organization">
h4(name). *Escuela Politécnica Nacional*, Quito - Ecuador

* Student %(date)Oct. 2006 - Sept. 2012%
* Laboratory & teacher's Assistant %(date)Aug. 2011 - June 2012%
* Teacher's Assitant %(date)Sept. 2010 - Feb. 2011%

</div>

</section>

<section>
h3. Conference Presentations

# *O. Nájera*, L. Lascano: ``Phase transitions in random interaction Ising-like models. Case study relaxor ferroelectrics'' *In:* XVI ELAVIO, _Latin American School in Operations Research_, Feb. 2012

</section>

<section>
h3. Posters

# *O. Nájera*, M. Civelli, M. Rozenberg, "Spin-orbit effect in the Mott-Hubbard metal-insulator transition", *At:* LEES 2014, Amboise-France June 2014
# *O. Nájera*, L. Lascano:``Estimation of the exchange interaction dispersion between PNR in relaxor ferroelectrics'' Awarded poster *In:* NanoAndes, Quito-Ecuador, Nov. 2012

</section>

<section>
h3. Other Publications

# *Nájera, O.*: ``Estimation, by computer simulation, of the exchange energy dispersion between polar nano-regions in $Pb_xBi_4Ti_{3+x}O_{12+3x}; x=\{2,3\}$ relaxor ferroelectrics'', Diploma Thesis(Spanish). Department of Physics - Escuela Politécnica Nacional, Sept. 2012

</section>

<section>
h3. Computer Skills

* *Programming Languages:* C/C++, Python, Bash, Php, Matlab/Octave
* *Libraries & packages:* GSL, SciPy, NumPy
* *Content-description languages:* HTML, CSS, LATEX
* *Operating Systems:*  Linux(Gentoo & Arch & Ubuntu)
* *Graphic design:* Gimp, Inkscape, Blender

</section>

<section>
h3. Languages

* *Spanish:* Native speaker
* *English:* Fluent speaker
* *German:* Fluent speaker
* *French:* Intermediate

</section>

<section>
h3. Outside Interests

* Ballroom Dancing
* Cycling
* Swimming

</section>
