---
layout: post
title:  Website redo blog migration
date:   2014-10-12
categories: webdesign
---

Today my website experienced a complete redo with a new design. The previous
presentation was established to mimic my blogger site. That required a great
amount of effort because I like simple things and to simplify the blogger theme
was quite challenging, I not always get CSS do what I want. Also the web
site could be seen in web browser but gave already problems in mobile phone
browsers, and doing the translation of the blogger site version for mobiles was
an unwanted challenge.

Now the decision is different. I'll keep a very simple website, easy to
understand in its code base and simple to update. Then the most notorious change
is just dropping blogger integration and keeping the blog statically generated
within the tools available from [GitHub Pages].
To start simple, I continued with a static website generated by
[Jekyll], but now including the blogging section. This starting template also
looks good on small screens, and I understand the code to edit both of the
templates.

[Jekyll] now has a start-up template, which is pretty much what you see now. I
added a few changes to recover what I feel were fancy parts of the previous layout
as the main content being in a shadowed container, and the link menu being hover
responsive. But, I'm not a graphical designer and some stuff just doesn't look
nice yet. I also fight with CSS a lot. In the end, I managed to get my wish done
and simplified a few things in the code, and understood how it's working.

Importing the blogger post was really easy because I didn't have many anyway and
I could do it manually.

### What did I learned this time?

* Unless you have a clear picture of the end output, don't mess with CSS
* I can import icons from [Font Awesome], instead of redrawing them for the
website. I did the redrawing because [Jekyll] sends sample icons. But after
checking some websites inner workings I found [Font Awesome] to rescue me. That's
why I love open source, you can see how stuff is done and build from there.
* Together with [Jekyll] is [SASS], and it is a great help for writing my CSS
code.

### What has yet to be done?

* Add content of course
* Link my open source work into this website
* Test other tools for web design. Having a blog requires also people being able
to comment on posts. During this redo I discovered other tools in [GitHub Pages]
that shall be included later on.
* Anything that is good, has to be redone. Because on the way I learn and that
changes my perspective on how to do things better. That is the course/joy of an
iterative leaning process.

[GitHub Pages]: https://pages.github.com/
[jekyll]: http://jekyllrb.com
[Font Awesome]: http://fontawesome.io/
[SASS]: http://sass-lang.com/install
