---
layout: post
title: How NOT to repair your broken phone screen
disqus_id: pending
categories: hardware
---
TL, DR: this is the story how I transformed my broken screen phone into
a paperweight.

Few weeks ago I dropped my phone to the street. It wasn't intentional,
I just did not secured it into my pocket when I restarted riding my
bike. So the screen broke despite the protecting cover. I first
thought this is sad, the phone was mostly functional had survied 2 and
a half years, many reinstalls of cyanogen mod too. And only from time
to time it will just decide not to work and reboot. It always made me
angry this planed deprecation. So I thought to buy a new phone because
the shatered screen was unpleasant to read on, just inventing reasons
to get new gear.

But while looking at new phone, I just came at the option of buying
just a new glass. And I looked at some videos on Youtube and It did
not looked hard at all, I still believe is not hard. So I looked for
replacement glasses. They were not unreasonably expensive, so I just
felt curious to try to fix it. So I ordered one, and the package
arrived a few days later, and then I had to plan into my schedule a
weekend when to go to a Fablab here in Paris. I can't do it at home as
I don't have much space or many of the tools, like a hair dryer that
you need to heat up the screen.

So the day came and I arrived to the Fablab, its a nice place with a
lot of nice people working each on their projects. I got a workdesk
and tools to get started. I got a professional heat gun to remove the
screen. This is the time I interrupt the story to bring some context
of my physiological state is now. I have been enrolled in a PhD in
Theoretical Physics for the last 2 years, living in Paris on a tiny
appartment without a workshop. The last time I even dissasembled my
laptop to remove the dust from it, clean the fan and heat sink an put
an SSD was 2 years ago in my fathers workshop. The last time I used a
soldering iron was 3 years ago. And 4 years ago since the last time I
did some carpentry work cutting wood to make shelves and then making
holes in the wall to install those shelves at home. So I was super
excited to get my hands to work again. That was a minor mistake, being
so much out of practice. The real mistake was the overconfidence that
I could remember every detail from the Youtube videos I watched some
weeks ago(yes 2 weeks ago). All those videos started heating the glass
with a hair dyer they recomended a heat gun but since a hair dryer is
something you can find at home they use that in the tutorials. And
they remind you is a task of patience at that it will take a while. Of
course I'm in fablab I got a professional heat gun, no questions
asked. Because if you ask for something specific instead of describing
your goals, you get the tools and zero advise. Your are seen as
someone experienced.

So I set my work environment I put my tools within reach, organize
myself. Check the power of the heat gun. Yes it is just hot air, still
put it to the minimum. point at the table, and check. Yes It did not
got to warm. Then approach my hand to the air flow path to understand
my work distance. Yes, it is not to powerful. So it's fine to work on
the phone. So I start pointing to the phone, and remember the youtube
videos. *It is a matter of patience*, so I keep blowing at the phone
some hot air. That is again the first mistake, if you are doing
something for the first time keep your manual at hand. I did not had
my laptop to follow the video and demonstrate each part of the
process. I just remember blow hot air to it to lossen the glass it
will take time. So after some time, I see that the glass changes the
way light is reflected. Yes I tell to myself it's working. The glue
has loosened up so I move the air flow to other places and see how the
glass changes color from black to a brow/dark yellow and it
propagates. Yes, I keep thinking, glues is loose. So touch the screen,
quite hot, yes people in those videos also get the reaction of the
screen being hot, but still touchable, also my case and it does not
deform. So I approach the knife to try to lift the glass. Wait, the
contours feel a lot warmer, wait when I support my hand on the edges of
the phone they move. *This is bad!* The containing plastic is melting,
I did not remember that from the videos. *Wait again* What I think of
the glass edge is not the glass edge is the frame of the phone I
heated too much on the edges*No!!*. Ok It will be a spoil of war, who
has a phone with wavy edges, that is the equivalent of having a scar
in my body, I'm still proud of my self. Well now I know what the glass
is and I'm pulling it of. It still looks as tricky as I remember from
the videos, keep going. I can see the LCD,*Wait, why does it look
brown?* I don't remember that. I should be black like a screen that is
turned off. Well it must be the glue, it feels sticky. Keep going, all
is brown. I recognize 2 things the glass and a minor plastic. I don't
remember that either. Have I gone too far? I'm I removing more than
the glass and taking the capacitive touch electronics? Hold on,  wait,
hit the breaks. Checkpoint. Look around see other parts, peel the
screen from other edges, looks similar. More intrigued, have I gone
too far?. What is this golden color of the screen.

Ok cool down everithing by know. Can I remove the glue on top of the
LCD? Put alcohol to disove it. No I can't do much about it. I just
understood. I fucking melted the LCD screen, I just completely broke
my phone. And because I made sure to blow the hot air evenly until I
could see this golden color on the glass I had made myself sure to
have melted the complete LCD. That's it, the containig glass of the
LCD is broken too, too much pressure from the hot Liquid crystal
inside, the cracks don't correspond to the cracks of the original
glass. *FUCK*.

Oh well, It was a good phone for the last 2 years. And I was already
willing to buy a new phone without giving it a try of doing the repair
myself. Now is a must to get a new phone. And know what with the
broken phone? well complete the experience Dissasemble the complete
phone get all the pieces. Infere what is what, is already dead, I lost
the phone don't loose the lesson.

So the Fablab is closing, I get the question, how is it going did you
repaired your phone? - No, I just broke it more. - Not yet, my
brother, not yet. Those things take from your patience and time. You
have to continue trying. - Sure man.

I didn't need the motivation speach, I'm actually hooked up to come
again to this Fablab and disassemble fully the phone. And see what to
do next with the pieces. Well the phone does not fit the battery
anymore, but it does seem to turn on, kind of it does the usula shake
and lights, but no display. Because I melted it. Once I arrive home
I'll see what to do with this.

Back at home I see a new video. Yes, this guy says, it's warm enough
as soon as you can do the next step, taking the glass off. *Fuck*, it
is explained I should have constantly tried to try to remove the glass
instead of patiently wait for a change in the optical response of the
glass. That is the educational bias from someone working is phase
transitions. If it looks similar is the same, and it is just at a
critical moment when the system transitions that you are in the new
state. Yes that holds, Thought I was expecting to go from UV hardened
glue to melted glue to remove the glass, but I got from working phone
with catered glass to melted LCD and a new paper weight.

Checking more videos, I see a LCD replacement video. It looks easy,
well I have the repair kit and a broken phone. I'll follow. Yes I can
follow it I disassembled the phone in those 7 min too. Remember have
the tutorial at hand when doing new stuff. Ok, I can replace the
screen. I'll buy a new one and finish the project. Well it's 78euros
for the LCD + shiping and I also melted the edges of the phone so the
battery does not fit anymore in either I don't know what else I melted
and is damaged. So sad. And my new phone is only at 95euros. Well new
phone it is. But I'll continue the dissasembly for the fun of looking
at current electronics, see the wonder of our current engineering. And
if you have any idea how to give a new use to the remaining parts of
my phone, leave it in the comments.
